---
title: trying something new - again - always
date: 2025-02-07T12:00:00-05:00
---
Welp, I've completely (well not so completely, boring technical stuff to follow) redone this site, as yet another learning experience but also hopefully to make this habit or experiment or portfolio or whatever a bit more sustainable. My previous site setup was a great introduction to what can be, but there were some tedious elements I was hoping I could cut out, and look for a potential solution where I can do everything in (almost) one place, and like a lot of things I've found, there was a great FOSS (*free and open-source - I'm a nerd*) answer to the question that I had. 

I do all my note-writing in Obsidian, as I've mentioned before on here and to anyone that will let me, everything from journals to thoughts about a book I'm reading to random experiments like a Python script that pulls my daily steps into every daily journal of mine to remind me how much I'm not moving while I'm writing all this crap. Quartz is a lovely GitHub repo (*ty [Jacky Zhao](https://github.com/jackyzha0)!*) that I forked, that while similar to my previous solution Hugo, allows me to much more seamlessly do my work where I'm already working. I'm able to just directly open the forked repo in Obsidian and Quartz will take the Obsidian-flavored markdown files and convert to HTML/CSS. Now, Obsidian does have an extremely painless way to do this with Obsidian Publish, and they charge an extremely reasonable fee, but it felt too easy... this is supposed to still be a little bit of a technical exercise for me right?

So yeah, maybe this will make this a little more frictionless and maybe I'll be putting more on here? Who knows, but as a continued extension of the various learning and journaling I've been doing, it's been pleasant. 

I've been toying with the idea, one that's a little trendy in some online spaces these days, to do a little newsletter, either instead of or in conjunction with this thing. Mainly as a way to stay in touch with people. Friends and family are so geographically spread out these days, maybe more so now than ever. A little one-way kind of "hey this is what's going on, if ur bored and any of this inspires conversation, that's cool, but otherwise have a good day". And maybe one other element is deleting Instagram. Holy moly, I knew that would be a change but it's so weird how automatic the time wasting on there was. Don't get me wrong, definitely some genuine connection with some friends near and far on there, but it definitely was a bottomless pit of time wasted when that wasn't happening. I'm already doing some of the writing, the most difficult part of the newsletter seems to be choosing which service to use, and maybe just deciding whether or not it's too cringe to do in the first place. I feel like my mom would be the only fan of it. In theory I just like this idea of "learning in public" I've been running into. 

Anyway, a real boring update into the void, but I'm pretty stoked about this new setup. Some pretty interesting life things coming up, we'll see how things go. up, down, and all around.

